docs: add hacking docs (#31)
vincenzopalazzo/changelog.dart: docs/dev/MAINTAINERS.mdx

# changelog.dart HACKING guide

## Table of Content

- Introduction
- Code Style
- Commit Style
- How make the release

## Introduction

> Welcome in the HACKING guide and how a day in a lndart.cln maintainer looks like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the HACKING guide and let's peek into how a day in the life of a lndart.cln maintainer looks like.
```

> After this reading you should be ready to contribute to the repository and also be one of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After reading this you should be ready to contribute to the repository and also be one of
```

the next maintainer in the future if you would like!

Let's begin

## Code style

> To ensure consistency throughout the source code, keep these rules in mind as you are working:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure consistency throughout the source code, these rules are to be kept in mind:
```

- All features or bug fixes **must be tested** by one or more specs (unit-tests).
- All public API methods **must be documented**. (Details TBC).

> - We follow [Effective Dart: Style Guidelines][dart-style-guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We follow the [Effective Dart: Style Guidelines][dart-style-guide].
```

### If You Don’t Know The Right Thing, Do The Simplest Thing
Sometimes the right way is unclear, so it’s best not to spend time on it. It’s far easier to rewrite simple code than complex code, too.

### Use of `FIXME`

There are two cases in which you should use a `/* FIXME: */`

> comment: one is where an optimization is possible, but it’s not clear that it’s yet worthwhile,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
comment: one is where an optimization seems possible, but it’s unclear if it’s yet worthwhile,
```

> and the second one is to note an ugly corner case which could be improved (and may be in a following patch).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the second one is in the case of an ugly corner case which could be improved (and may be in a following patch).
```

There are always compromises in code: eventually it needs to ship. `FIXME` is grep-fodder for yourself and others,
as well as useful warning signs if we later encounter an issue in some part of the code.

### Write For Today: Unused Code Is Buggy Code

> Don’t overdesign: complexity is a killer. If you need a fancy data structure, start with a brute force linked list. Once that’s working,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don’t overdesign: complexity is a killer. If you need a fancy data structure, start with a brute force linked list. One that is working,
```

Author: I think that `Once that’s working,` is correct?

> Don’t overdesign: complexity is a killer. If you need a fancy data structure, start with a brute force linked list. Once that’s working,

Author: I like fancy :) ahhha

perhaps consider your fancy structure, but don’t implement a generic thing. Use `/* FIXME: ...*/` to salve your conscience.

### Keep Your Patches Reviewable
Try to make a single change at a time. It’s tempting to do “drive-by” fixes as you see other things, and a minimal amount is unavoidable,
but you can end up shaving infinite yaks. This is a good time to drop a `/* FIXME: ...*/` comment and move on.

## Commit Style

> The commit style is one of the more important concept to manage a monorepo like lndart.cln, and in particular

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The commit style is one of the more important concepts when managing a monorepo like lndart.cln, and in particular
```

> the commit style are used to generate the changelog for the next release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the commit style is used to generate the changelog for the next release.
```

The commits will follow a dart community guideline with the following rules.

Each commit message consists of a **header**, a **body** and a **footer**. The header has a special
format that includes a **type**, a **scope** and a **subject**:

```
<type>(<scope>): <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

> The **header** is mandatory and the **scope** of the header is optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **header** is mandatory while the **scope** of the header is optional.
```

> Any line of the commit message cannot be longer 100 characters! This allows the message to be easier
> to read on GitHub as well as in various git tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All lines in a commit message should be at most 100 characters! This ensures better readability on GitHub as well as in various git tools.
```

The footer should contain a [closing reference to an issue](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-via-commit-messages/) if any.

> A coupled of examples are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some examples:
```

> A coupled of examples are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A couple of examples are:
```

```
docs(changelog): update changelog to beta.5
```

```
fix(release): need to depend on latest rxjs and zone.js

The version in our package.json gets copied to the one we publish, and users need the latest of these.
```

### Types

- **feat**: A new feature
- **fix**: A bug fix

### Scopes

- **rpc**: Changes related to the core lightning RPC wrapper package
- **cln_plugin**: Changes related to the core lightning plugin API package

### Subject

The subject contains a succinct description of the change:

- use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"
- don't capitalize the first letter
- no dot (.) at the end

### Body

> You are free to put all the content that you want inside the body, but if you are fixing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You are free to put all the content you want inside the body, but if you are fixing
```

> an exception or some wrong behavior you must put the details or stacktrace inside the body to make sure that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an exception or some wrong behavior, you must put the details or stacktrace inside the body to ensure that
```

> it is indexed from the search engine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the search engine indexes it.
```

An example of commit body is the following one

```
checker: fixes overloading operation when the type is optimized

The stacktrace is the following one

} expected `Foo` not `Foo` - both operands must be the same type for operator overloading
   11 | }
   12 |
   13 | fn (_ Foo) == (_ Foo) bool {
      |                  ~~~
   14 |     return true
   15 | }

Signed-off-by: Vincenzo Palazzo <vincenzopalazzodev@gmail.com>
```

> ## How make the release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to make the release
```

> ## How make the release

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to make the release
```

> This is the most funny part, and also is the most difficult one in a monorepo repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the most fun part and also is the most difficult one in a monorepo repository.
```

> In particular, lndart.cln has the possibility to release one single package at the time, or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In particular, lndart.cln has the possibility to release one single package at a time, or
```

all together.

> To prepare the release the following steps are required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prepare the release, these steps must be followed:
```

> To prepare the release the following steps are required:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To prepare for the release, the following steps are required:
```

> - Bump the version number in the package before the release, and the version inside the `changelog.json` in the package root;
> - Generate the changelog related to the package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bump the version number in the package before the release, and the version inside the `changelog.json` in the package root;
- Use a Personal Access Token or generate a [new one](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token).
- Generate the changelog related to the package:
```

    - `export GITHUB_TOKEN="your_token"`

>     - `make {changelog_client|changelog_flutter|changelog}`, where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `make {changelog_rpc|changelog_plugin|changelog}`, where
```

        - `changelog_rpc`: generate the changelog for clightning_rpc;
        - `changelog_plugin`: generate the changelog for cln_plugin;
        - `changelog`: generate both changelogs.

> - Make the Github release: To release a single package we need to create a release with the following tag `{package_name}-v{version_number}`, and
>   if we make a release with the tag `v{version_number}` this will release all the packages (useful for a major release of the package).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make the Github release: To release a single package we need to create a release with the following tag `{package_name}-v{version_number}`, and if we make a release with the tag `v{version_number}` this will release all the packages (useful for a major release of the package).
```

>Programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for machines to execute.
>                                                                            - Someone

> N.B: Part of this document is stolen by [core lightning](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/blob/master/doc/HACKING.md) and @rustyrussell experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
N.B: Part of this document is stolen from [core lightning](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/blob/master/doc/HACKING.md) and from @rustyrussell's experience.
```
